In my last course, I touched
a little bit on software patterns.
I tend not to speak in software patterns
very much, because I really want to do but
there are some software patterns that
actually have a fair amount of use.
These are the ones that I use the most,
which is the repository pattern.
Firstly, the factory pattern,
which allows pretty much,
say, one object is used to create other
objects very useful in certain situations.
And then unit of work,
which basically says is the pattern for
taking a bunch of related operations and
executing them in one go.
You can think of a database transaction
in multiple SQL statements,
if you're a SQL user,
as one unit of work, right?
You want to make sure that all of those
requests succeed and you wrap them in
a transaction to say, yes, commit at the
end, I want all those changes to be done.
We're going to take this one, one that we
commonly see in the .NET Core world and
ASP.NET Core, and we're going to
talk about the repository pattern.
That's gonna be the focus of this section.
I don't want you to take away that I don't
think design patterns are important.
They are, in fact, important, and they are
integrated in many of the languages and
frameworks.
But I like to focus on doing,
as I said, and let the complexity of,
I am a firm believer that
the complexity of the architecture and
the complexity of the program will reveal
itself such that you don't have to start
by implementing all these things.
You can start very simple, like we have.
We created a very basic API,
and we're building upon that.
We're building upon that to show off
different parts of ASP.NET Core and
how these apps would be
built in the real world.
In the real world, we see
the repository pattern quite a bit, so
it's important to talk about.
Basically, the repository pattern
is a design pattern to say,
I want to separate
the concerns of data storage,
like database from the access
of that inside of our code.
So it's kind of like you can think of it
as something that an object that sits in
between a real database and
our ASP.NET Core endpoints.
So repository is how we communicate,
how we get to the database and
remove and add objects from it.
So up to this point,
our list has been our repo.
It's been our repository.
And this is not how things
are done in the real world.
First of all, this list of, I mean,
it's very obvious to say, but
when you start it up and
then shut it down, that list is destroyed.
That doesn't stay in memory.
We're going to stay with an in
memory repository for now.
But when we refactor the database,
which we will get to, you'll see,
we'll talk about how that's
done in Entity Framework Core.
We'll show off the repository
pattern in memory for now.
But further, the methods of list don't
really model well the operations that we
actually want to perform.
It's really is just a dumb collection,
right?
We can add, remove, and it has no safety
and no protection against just adding or
removing objects wantonly.
But we also may wanna test to
use a separate data source,
so we can test the behavior of our
API without relying on a database or
a common way to access data from
different parts of the application.
Because we're not gonna
just have employees.
We're probably gonna have other companies.
The employees are gonna belong
to a specific company, or
that employee is gonna have benefits,
right?
So we wanna create a common pattern for
accessing all of those objects.
So we're gonna introduce this interface,
it's called the IRepository.
And I'm gonna go ahead and add it to,
I'm gonna actually close this folder.
I'm gonna open up the next folder,
which contains
our previous work done and
we're gonna add to this.
So we're going to go here.
We're going go here.
And the first thing I'm gonna do is I
am going to add it to a folder called
abstractions, which is
just a common name for
just something where you would store
some of your of your interfaces, right?
And this is indeed an abstraction, so
we're gonna call it
the IRepository interface.
We're gonna put it there, and
we're just gonna overwrite that.
So let's go through these
methods one at a time.
So they kind of model pretty well how we
would actually get data out of a system.
So we have a GetAll which
returns an IEnumerable of T,
we have a create update and
we also have a delete.
And then we have something that says
GetById, which will return that object as
unknowable because we may not be able
to get that object if it doesn't exist.
If it doesn't exist by that id,
we won't be able to get it.
So we gonna take away our list.
We're gonna go ahead and
delete, deleted, boom.
And we're gonna create
our employee repository.
I'm gonna get all this code in here and
then I'm gonna walk you through
all of the different parts of it.
So we're gonna call this
an employee repository.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
I'm going to paste that in.
Scroll up, the only squiggle is that
we need to import our repository.
So we're gonna hit command period,
and we're gonna see using the employee
API.abstractions, we're
gonna see that we've got it.
Okay now, so
now we've defined our employee repository.
And you'll notice that we've
implemented the interface IRepository.
Gave it the type employee,
because we're operating on employees.
So all of these methods now replace
this T type with the type of the object
that we wanna operate on,
in which case this is employee.
So that's exactly what we want.
Perfect.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So we need
to update our endpoints to use this new
repository.
We can do that by, there's a couple
of different ways we could.
Well, the main way that we're going to
do that is by adding in you see that
our employees are gone.
So in this argument, we're going to go
ahead and add our EmployeeRepository.
Boom.
We'll call it repo for now.
And now we can access that
repository from our GET request.
This, the dependency injection system will
attempt to match this up to a service,
and we will go in and we will save
our employees equals repo.GetAll and
then you can see that,
because we're getting our employee objects
that our endpoint stops complaining.
So let's copy all of these.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Boom.
Put them in and you can see that we
now have our EmployeeRepository.
And just to make it super clear
where these are coming from.
This is from body.
Put that over there, and then there we go.
And this is from services.
So this is intended to be injected in
from our dependency injection system.
That's the services
that we define up here.
We're going to run our tests.
We're gonna see what happens.
We're gonna see that everything's working,
everybody's happy, right?
Wait a second, what the heck happened?
Why did all our tests fail?
Well, it's part of
the dependency injection system.
It doesn't make assumptions.
It doesn't want to just pull
an object that doesn't exist.
So we actually have to register with
our dependency injection system first.
So, the way that we do that
Is builder.Services.Add.
We will add it as a singleton
in the real world,
when we're working with real databases,
we will not add this as a singleton.
And you'll see why in a bit.
But because this is an in memory list,
we're gonna go ahead and go with it.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So, now you're
gonna see that because we've added this
service in EmployeeRepository,
now we can rerun our tests and
we should see that our tests pass and
our behavior hasn't changed.
So just because we told employee that we
need an employee repository doesn't mean
that ASP.NET Core just wants to
make an assumption and give us one.
We need to register it in with
the dependency injection system first.
Another point to make sure that
I point out is that most of
the time when you're using
a repository pattern like this,
you're not just going to use
the concrete type directly.
Oftentimes you're gonna be
using the interface type.
In this case, it's IRepository.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
show you what that looks like here.
So it's very common to,
we're gonna go ahead and
pretty sure it's complaining
about lack of import, perfect.
So because we may want to test
this component separately, or
we may want to provide a different
Implementation inside of our tests,
we typically do not use the concrete type,
which is the EmployeeRepository.
We typically use the interface type.
So we're gonna go ahead and copy that down
here, and we're gonna replace all of our
employee repository to use what we call
the interface type, not the concrete type.
Go ahead and control here .NET test.
Everything's looking good.
It's what we wanted.
You can see that I'm not actually running
this API and actually doing things that
much, and it's because, as long as my
tests are passing, I don't really have to.
But you can see, wait a second,
what the heck's going on?
Where are all my employees?
Well, we did take them out of the repo,
after all.
So we need to add those back in,
which we'll do here shortly.
So that's why we're not
getting back any data.
All of our endpoints have been
updated to user repository.
We took away that stupid list in memory.
And we've abstracted it away into
something that we could actually use to
talk to a real database if we wanted.
And then we added that repository to
the dependency injection system so
that way ASP.NET Core knows where it is
and how to construct it and update it and
see that all of our tests are passing.
So looking pretty good.
Can I answer any questions?
>> Student: Yeah, so,
earlier you were talking about creating
different requests based
on the shape of the data,
so, I'm just curious,
in an instance of a patch,
when would one want to consider
updating requests to use a patch?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That's
a great question.
So typically my endpoint's
gonna look a little different.
When I do implement patch requests,
which isn't super often, I'll usually use
something that models a dictionary that
is a string followed by Something like
an object, depending on the complexity
of the entity that I'm trying to update.
So what I could do then is receive that
dictionary and say, this person just wants
to update the first name or just the last
name, or in this case, or address two or
something along those lines and
then update those individual properties.
I don't do that a lot and
I don't see it a lot in practice either.
But it can be done outside
the scope of this course, but
requires a little bit of reflection but
it's definitely possible, and
I have done it before in the past for
certain APIs.